Well, you experiment with putting the pink and the red and yellow together.
You do, even though there's just, is there like three colors on this white rose?
Or is it just one white rose to go on the outline of the white rose?
Oh, they're not matched that tightly, I don't think they, I mean, I actually never pursued that.
like maybe that is when the color decisions are made so that what you do is to discover the color decision yeah i think you may be right because this piece fits there and only there and only there yeah but it doesn't have a little slot that's odd oh yes it does have a slot but there's one that's just slots
But first, that seems to me you could experiment.
Oh, that's very good.
Maybe that's the final.
Maybe that's the final product after the study.
I mean, maybe it's developmental.
Maybe it's not here.
I have not come up here with that.
And then you go into the composition.
You get to break the rules.
What level of instruction do you think that would be?
At what level?
I don't know.
A young woman.
I would think adolescent, teenage.
No, why do you say woman?
A young girl.
But it definitely would be female.
Oh, yeah.
It's all, the text is all about why this is good for female taste.
Is it?
Also, that's an interesting woman's studies.
This is very related to, I'm doing some research now on a woman who would have been schooled in this period.
Her mother, actually.
Sure.
I did not know him.
I know of him and I have his.
I believe him.
Yeah, his color cones.
Yeah, yeah.
And I saw the exhibit of the fog of those colored cones.
Right.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Maiden Lane colors by numbers.
Yeah, yeah.
But you know, Nancy, well your question just made me think of that book, which, um, could somebody bring that over?
We're choosing all over in time, but... No, you're right.
How's the glue bill?
I put that out because I want Sue to see.
Oh, right.
Because it's, um, this is...
Really, I had this for a long time and I just suddenly realized, looking at it again, what it is.
And it's related to your question of, is there a right place for things?
This is a type of 20th century art instruction book.
Yeah.
Watch the loose, please.
These were all cutouts.
You can feel them.
There was a certain right place.
to put your stickly furniture oh look at that look at that and so you get you get this whole monster yeah um well we prepare you to to be uh yeah home definitely know how to so these are all isn't that interesting tasted on and in the place where
Kind of like the books that are ticker books.
Yeah, yeah.
They just have to move for you now.
There's no date.
No, I figure it's 1800 to 1810.
Magnificent condition.
Yeah, absolutely wonderful condition.
How important was condition to you, or was it?
No.
um basically i wanted to learn what was out there and the thing that everybody who looks at this stuff always says well they were artist materials so they got you know they got used and they got paint on them and um now that's not entirely an honest answer if i saw three things lined up and one was really in mint or interesting condition i would much prefer it um
One of the puzzling things to me is most of the things I only saw once.
Ever.
I don't understand that.
I really don't understand it.
But anyway, I'll show you a few more things.
You wanted to know about this.
These are all drawing cards.
Drawing cards have a long history in New England.
And I'm not going to...
open each one but i'll sort of tell you about these are the size of the cards and they came in a little portfolio like that they're all original autographs this was used by the boston public schools english high school the date is 1858 and this is benjamin cole the same artist who was the cole uh drawing card actually cole was not the one at english high
these were this is ben benjamin nutting bf nutting here's a crummy um set with lots of ink on it and this is a really ninch one um is he a wallace nutting connection i don't know it's an interesting question and i wonder if carl is related to the um archaeologist that's an archaeologist call from you know i don't know
This is 1850s, this is what?
The good thing, by the way, you want to know my secret to my success?
Is that I have very bad vision.
And so I can look very closely and see things that if I had on my contact lens, I couldn't see.
So...
I'll show you something.
There are a lot of helpers in the making of this collection.
This, I'll show you something that's kind of great.
You know the name Jacob Abbott from Portland, Maine?
He was a teacher and storybook writer.
A little Rollo book.
Yeah.
These are drawing cards that were published under his name.
These are very hard to get in and out of the box, so I don't want to do it.
too much um yeah this i thought i could share because this is open already this is um learning to make marks yeah development they're all numbered oh look at that i wonder how much to say
the numbering is very interesting because you can find it is a box under here which i'm not going to show it all today because i don't want to get into it but uh i um people started sending me sketchbooks that students made you know that had sometimes a name on it but none of them became any name that is known but they many times numbered the drawings that they did from the drawing cards and so you could begin to really
put these things together.
This is 1850.
I was going to tell you about these helpers, these little angels who came along who were very, yeah.
When did they stop using these cards?
These became
That's a very interesting question.
They become, I think, the sort of light-headed, silly imagery in coloring books.
Actually, there's a step in between.
There's these, and then after Civil War, there is this strong industrial push to
study drawing for design for application to industry and then you get these chromo coloring books with girls with lots of lacy dresses drawing at an easel to inspire you you know i mean completely these are so serious they were not kidding around with these this was this is for children yes not for adults yeah um
You say you haven't seen any of these before, many of these before or since, but have you located them in any bibliography?
In the Peter Marzio.
Most of them?
Yeah.
So they are recorded?
Not all of them.
This, I was talking about my helpers, certain booksellers.
just were so enamored with what i was doing that they would send me things they would send me i got a lot of these sketchbooks without even asking for them but this is one of my great treasures both from whom it came anybody knows sam murray sam murray a bookseller from wilbraham he was one of the great people and um one day
This arrived in the mail, and it happened to be my birthday, which he didn't know.
Look at the quality of this.
And I brought a lot from him, but then he got so enamored with this project of mine.
These are little drawing instructions.
Now, this is a set I have never seen anywhere.
They're called Nudsun's Method for Drawing Instruction.
And the approaches are really different.
Let me see.
where isn't it newton from i don't know where it was published in new york and there um there's a different i mean this is very i'll just show you this this is uh really an application of mechanical drawings this kind of measuring um studies um this came out right this is 64 and this is the beginning of the boom of the industrial application
But I want to show something so beautiful.
This kind of thing is also in the set, as is this.
Anyhow, I think of him when I handle this.
What a rich, so much must come back to you.
Yeah, yeah.
Is that going to the Hutchinson Truth?
All of this is.
How did you get connected to this?
The bookseller who I thought could handle this introduced me to the people at Huntington, and they just sucked over this.
They had a predisposition to be interested in this material.
You know, I have to tell you, now that it's all over and has such a happy ending, I thought I was a nut.
I mean, I was teaching this stuff, and I saw a lot of issues, but I thought, what am I doing?
It was like the gentle madness, you know?
No, it is the gentle madness.
It's a severe case.
Interior vision that draws you.
The thing is, I heard of, well, I could go on.
Gentle madness.
It's a book.
i have discovered that i have um a learning a learning style that needs to learn from objects not from texts and i just could learn from handling these things or even yeah looking for them um these are louis prang's drawing books when prang came over
to this country he thought he was going to make a bundle on our education which indeed he did but the civil war got in the way so these i believe are pre-civil war 18 this is in the middle of the civil war but he made his immediate fortune making maps battle maps lithographically for when the troops were in the civil war and then
after the civil war came back to the art education stuff and was voracious for getting the business of drawing manuals drawing cards he hooked up with walter smith who was this british educator who was brought over here and so there's tons of things in the name of prang prang ultimately as i see it um
kicked i encourage walter smith to go back to london kept the reputation of the drawing books had and put his wife and other artists in the position of making books that looked a lot like the smith books but were not but the amount of money that was to be made most people don't even understand it's about contemporary education the textbook business is a huge market
Did he die in England?
Yeah.
So he's buried in England.
I have been told the tombstone says he died of a broken heart.
You said that, that's actually why I asked.
Yeah.
I think it's in a country graveyard, a church graveyard of a church that he was involved with.
What has this material brought to you teaching?
It's such a wonderful question.
I'm not teaching anymore.
I've retired.
First of all, I did a whole session of this course on helping students understand the difference between reproductions and originals.
The Pennsylvania Academy put out a device, a box with stuff, celebrating some anniversary or other.
and if you didn't know the real thing you would be fooled so I would give that set of materials you know one piece of paper per person and ask them to look at it and smell it and feel it and then I would give them some of this stuff and you're never the same once you
remember a long time ago morton when um i interviewed you about your parents or how you were educated when you were little a long time ago and i remember you telling me something that i never forgot about how you were told to go right up to the painting really close and to recognize the hand before you get distracted is do i is that correct
Let's pause, correct.
Of course, then people make mistakes and think that's the way you look at the picture.
Yeah, but the notion of how do you know the material?
How do you know it if you don't get close to it?
That's true.
So, I think I'll show you two more things, three more things.
Well, I thought that you got people close to the material.
Exactly, exactly.
And then they started collecting.
They probably ruined my market.
She spawned a lot of collectors.
But here's a wonderful thing in a totally different vein that I couldn't believe when I found it.
These are Japanese pattern books.
These are different kinds of seals.
This is the whole story in itself.
I went to Japan.
This is not where I bought these, but I bought these actually in New Hampshire.
But I found out that the Japanese are the great makers of
drawing painting manuals because copying is so ancient and embedded in the culture but anyway so i stopped and looked at these two in new hampshire and on the inside it says compliments of arthur wesley dowell 1898 you see arthur wesley dowell was the big reformer of 20th century american art education to say nothing about his own wonderful art
And he wrote a book called Composition at exactly the time that his books had dated.
And his notion was that Americans being introduced to aesthetic expression, completely breaking with the industrial stuff from the 90s.
I mean, it's really funny.
It's just exactly changed the century and changed the aesthetic.
So I was thrilled.
You're probably the only person in America who would make that association, too.
really that that's what you call a great association copy but who else would perceive that you know when you think about it some some would what i'm thrilled about about the huntington acquisition is that they know that and they're gonna they call me they say you are the text and they want me to come out there and talk about this stuff and get this you know i mean there are people who just
Get it?
And there are... Done.
Okay, I'm going to... These are... What should I... I can't keep going like this.
Too much stuff.
I'm going to show you one great thing.
They're early black plates.
You want to see that?
These are very interesting.
And in that cabinet in the living room are the modern ones.
Because these are still made.
I don't understand what they are.
Okay, here I'll show you.
These are very fragile.
Oh my.
These are, this one is particularly so far, I know I wrapped it tightly.
This is a wooden frame with a wooden back and a pivoting stick so that you could remove the back and
see different wood engravings.
There's a whole set of wood engravings back then.
You could change them so you could trace on... These aren't like lantern slides.
No, no, no.
Much earlier.
This is probably 1840.
Here's a transparent slate.
And they're all sort of grinchy because they drew on the graphite.
I mean, they drew directly on the glass.
Tracing everything?
Yeah.
And that was a very respected discipline.
That's right.
It's like an early light table, not the light.
You know how designers now have portable tables and they have their image underneath the glass.
They cross the glass on top and they put it right on it.
It's actually very much like that process that's used now.
It's almost like Dura's drawing process.
The glass in the distance with the graph drawn on it.
Oh really?
The object on the other end of the table like a ping pong table.
A glass graph.
What do you call these again?
Glass slate.
Slate.
S-L-A-T-E-S.
And I was talking before about how much money was to be made in Artification Paracenalia, because every school had to have one and every evening drawing class had to have one.
These are exquisitely made.
The wood is just beautiful.
And I like to use this as an example of how the quality of materials declined.
These were...
not so much later this was also a math art and museum school faculty members innovation this crummy little thing but these were the cheap replacement for these and um
I'm going to show you one last thing, which is the last thing I bought, I think.
Which is this box.
We went to Grimfield one day, and I said, I'm not buying any more.
And then I saw this box, and my sniffer was going.
And this is a very wonderful thing to my mind.
This was made in Scotland.
I'm not going to go through the whole thing, but if you think of the growth of the schools in urban areas where people knew nothing about animals and vegetables and minerals, this was to enable a school child to understand the world that was no more.
or was in the process this guy who sold me this sold it at the price of the box it still happens i mean this was about three or four years ago but i think these are such an education both on the origin of materials and of the aesthetic application
I had a photographer come last week who is taking, has taken a picture of every full page with the text.
So this is wonderful.
Granite and marble.
Where does it come from?
How was it applied?
Isn't that wonderful?
Did you say this is American?
It was used, what it says down here is Oliver and Boyd, Edinburgh, London, blah, blah, blah.
And then, no, but importantly, Heinz Noble, agents for the United States.
Magnificent.
I don't want to handle it anymore.
I think it is.
Oh, what part?
Look at that.
Clay.
The application.
Look at that clay.
You got that for the cost of the box.
Yeah.
Oh, God.
Do you mind if we ask?
$35.
I never did anything.
Except in my own childhood.
We had objects.
leather one a little bit where you had to bring in something and say where it grew or how it was made i remember i brought in a cotton bowl and i you know with the seeds in it you squeeze the cotton and they could feel those seeds but you know there must this was such a wonderful way to introduce children to oh absolutely it's so enticing yeah well and our gallery instructors carried things like this yes that's right
That's right.
Bill is the Education Chief at the Museum of Fine Arts.
And I love that you do that, those hollered bags.
But these are so beautifully composed.
Yeah, yeah.
And you can sort of see, they come out of the South Kensington School.
You're the Education Chief at MFA.
How do you judge something?
How would you evaluate something like this?
Oh, well, I don't think I'm capable of it.
What I mean the connection of is seeing and touching that our gallery instructors, when they go in the galleries, kids can't touch different objects.
When you were in the classical world, for example, so they share silk or they share granite or different marbles
Oh, you can touch it.
Oh, that's a good thing.
And how joinery is done.
Lots of stuff.
Yeah, I forgot it was there.
Do you want to describe it in such a way?
The extent to which kids in the Boston Public Schools or others understand.
I mean, language is difficult.
We can deal with very concrete and abstract.
But we also want to do a lot of different things so kids can excel and feel confident.
So it's not, oh,
have you ever seen anything like that i've not no no no no no this makes many more points yeah because it's also about the application a lot of the stuff was when you grow up you if you learn this you can do that so you would make ornamental pattern and anyway so what do you why do you feel when you discover something like that
That's probably an understatement.
It's a very strange process.
I'm sure every collector has this feeling.
It's as if you sniffed it before you found it, before you looked at it.
I don't understand.
Because there were hundreds of dealers there at Brimfield, that you should be drawn to this piece.
Well, I love looking at stuff.
i mean that if i didn't love it i wouldn't have found any the hunting is um i'm sure i'm saying things that are all too familiar to you but um i think you know to go back to the question you asked bill i think there are many many many children who need to learn in a different way than they do
And I have recently actually, I'm sort of amused by this, so I've always felt that I had a certain kind of learning disability and a certain kind of learning extraordinariness.
On both sides, I have very impatient with reading and endlessly interested in objects.
And I actually had myself tested recently because I figure I'm old enough to find out what the truth is.
And that there are a lot of people I found, but I'm dyslexic.
Really?
Yeah.
And what's really incredible is to have written books.
But I always, the secret is that I walk from object to object.
I learn from the object.
And then if I needed to understand something, I would go and find a book on that subject.
But I wasn't a reader.
And Andy is such a reader.
He's reading all the time, all the time.
And he's so disappointed that I can't share that.
But I don't.
I just don't enjoy it.
But this does.
So it has very big implications.
this stuff for education today.
And I hope this collection will actually influence that.
My sister called the other day and she said, you know, the LA County Museum is just starting a big art education project.
Do you know about that?
With a variety of museums with very diverse objects.
And, you know, there should be more ways to get at this.
The Getty has been so dominant.
And hopefully there'll be some other ways.
I mean, that's a largely, the Getty approach is largely text-based.
That's interesting.
Telling, not looking.
So there it is.
i think so i think so the thing that makes me glad is how appreciative the curators and librarians seem to be at what this is uh the thing that's sad is that and it can't be anywhere this way but i'm having it all together is is such a richness what i've been able to do today
now we're going to have an exhibit out there and they will be selected out there will be selected out there my um so you'll see some just some those who are there will see the juxtaposition that you've seen today but um and you've seen a very tiny part of them i've been thinking about the relationship of what you're showing us this afternoon to the um
collection um focus that you put together in worcester some years ago for that show uh right right in fact that was the model well let me show you something that was the um american antiquarian society um well it was interesting because it was a you know it was an opportunity to frame yeah um theoretically the collection into
uh then make a selection of ways in which it could be exhibited it would be a substantial very large exhibition that's mine yeah i just don't want to do that um some people uh well what i i have a an approach to this whole business which is um that a place should have it for whom
the rest of the city, where the collection illuminates their interests and they can use it, not just because it looks like a neat thing to have.
Anyway, Gigi Barnhill, who we were talking about the other day, who is a print curator at the American Antiquarian Society, she really courted me for the material of Drontart, and she knew exactly what it would mean there.
um because their collection is a history of print and she was widening the definition as much as she could to include art as part of what they collect now so what i did was um say that they could have that material the artwork
I gave them the print material they bought, that was kind of a, not half and half, very small part of the bind, was bind, but the terms, and that's what Nancy was saying before, the terms of the gift was that there would be an exhibit, a symposium, and a publication so that the collection would be identified and accessible to features.
This is the book that has just come out, which is the symposium you were at.
And I'm very pleased about this.
And what I've done with Huntington is the same thing.
I said, you can have this stuff if you'll do a grand exhibit and do a symposium and do a book.
At the Huntington?
Yep.
And they agreed to that.
uh pending pending that the quality of the papers weren't i mean i think it would be foolish you can pass around it would be foolish of them to say yes we'll publish for something i haven't seen but that that program of really focusing people's attention on the material bringing in um various people's interest to focus on this stuff and see what it is
And it generates additional research.
That's right.
I mean, that's the best part of it, is that people come and they lift in and they put, you know, one-on-one together and they go home with five.
Really.
That's right.
When was the exhibition in Worcester, roughly?
Three or four years ago.
Is that right, Nancy?
You were there.
Were you there, too?
I know I went to one and heard the symposium, and I know it's different about this.
It was wonderful.
Every time I think something's two or three years ago, I know it could have to do with getting older, but it's definitely always more.
Whenever I say it's three years ago, I'm down to that.
How does I know it's not in three?
I remember thinking that something happened, people asked me, 20 years ago.
And then I kept them on 20 years ago.
People asked me, 20 years what?
That's wonderful.
Yeah.
This is such a treat, generally.
I mean, I've watched a lot of them grow.
Yeah, you've been in Grimfield with me.
Yes, they have.
Unless you've been on some of these finds, huh?
Oh, yeah.
And has made finds of her own.
I started going to Grimfield, I think, when I was 12, with my aunt and uncle, and there were not very many people there, really.
It was one field.
Is that right?
Yes, it was one field.
I mean, it was one great big, it was large, but it was still considered a bigger thing around here, but it wasn't anything like what it's become.
And there were occasionally, there were people who had small set-ups on the side of the road, but nothing like, you know, nothing.
Do you still go now, Nancy?
No, I don't.
I'm just overwhelmed, I have to admit.
It's a love-hate relationship, but it's overwhelming.
I find it overwhelming.
I too.
I was coming back from Maine a couple of weeks ago.
that on a whole strip of the road were just all one after another.
Did you stop?
No.
I remember.
There were too many other people, but it was very hard not to.
They were good.
There was one wall, and I mean, like, where are we going?
Good stuff in front of those.
You know, one of the things, let me think of how I want to say it.
There's a certain time of life where you want stuff.
And then there's the time when you move it away.
You know, I remember my mother doing that about, not this kind of stuff, but I just think that's an interesting, you deal with that.
There's a fellow in my book who says it's just as hard deaccessioning a collection properly as it is putting it together.
I mean, making sure it goes to the right place.
Toby Holtzman, yeah, making sure that the right people get it, precisely the kinds of things that you're doing.
Wonderful.
Thanks.
So that's the story!
See why I told you, it's hard to describe.
We just chatted for the first half of the days ago.
They just came back from Paris.
Did you do the interview?
Was that it?
We would have.
Well, we will.
Actually, I've been doing a lot of the interviews.
Or magazines, is that it?
I'm sorry?
Is it for a book or a magazine?
Probably both.
Both, uh-huh.
Great.
You know, when I called you, that was very hard to do.
I could tell.
I could tell, because you left a message, and I could tell that it's not an easy... I have been so private about this.
I'm looking at you and thinking, we've been in the same city, working around the same field,
And you knew more, I don't know how, but I was very, very, very private about this.
And then, of course, most of it just had to be piled together.
It wasn't so easy to take out in my previous house.
But anyway, I wish I'd shared it with you earlier.
I wish we'd figured out a way to do something.
And how long have you known each other?
Yeah, many years.
How long have you been in Boston?
Who would do the 20-year thing again?
I don't quite like that.
Sixteen years.
And this is the first you've known of the extent of this particular thing?
The extent, absolutely.
That's an interesting impact on situating.
Yes.
Yeah.
She's a good scholar.
And this is the woman who, as a curator at the NET,
and prints and drawings, I guess, who worked on 15-length instructional experience with John Chaplin's drawing book.
But you know, even if you didn't share it, but you were cataloging it in the sense that you knew you were going to share it.
Yeah.
I mean, I think the fact that you took such care to catalog it.
When you were writing it.
Yeah.
Would you say this is one of those synergistic collections where, you know, you talk about the value, the most you ever paid for a particular item was $250, but maybe most of them you paid $10 or $5 or $20, whatever.
But this is one of those collections... Two.
Whatever.
But with a sum that's greater than the individual parts.
Yeah, right.
The true value is as a collection, not as individual parts.
Absolutely.
You know, among art collectors, there's a... or probably among...
book people too the talk of should you let it go scattered to the winds again or keep it together when you have made a personal collection well it's a very I'm very intrigued by that question because look at the joy I had in putting it together and then it's together and it's out of circulation
um except in this new mode of being the wonderful museum but um i guess i've just come to understand that each lifetime has certain opportunities
and this was the opportunity of my moment and you know it's all gone it's all i mean and there are other things i mean furniture collectors say you can't find anything and you know i mean depending there are certain periods when there's uh not quite recognition yeah they're fine i think they're objects well they're they're funny and they're not quite seen
Yet.
That's important.
Of all that time.
Yeah, right.
Well, of your time.
But the idea of cutting edge, you know, like, I'm trying to think of who that woman is, the name is Dayton, but another famous collector who always managed to be just at the, thinking of, you know, a certain thing before other people started to get a hold of them.
Yeah.
And that's really part of what it is.
before it's all gone for other reasons for other reasons other than the collectability of them yeah well i mean i'm thinking of the dispersal would mean perhaps the destruction of them depends if you build the understanding um i basically agree with you i'm very glad they're all going to be here
My own personal view is that it would be criminal to break up this particular collection because it could never be done.
And fortunately I've written a lot.
The course that I created that I learned from these things is now a book.
In addition to Drawn to Art, there's another book called Art Making and Education, which is written for a different audience than Drawn to Art.
That's kindergarten stuff.
Tell us what these things are.
These are proebel.
What did you call it again?
F-R-O-E-B-E-L.
Let me put this away and then I'll show you.
Frederick Frobel was a genius who had a little trouble finding himself, but when he found himself he also found the kindergarten.
And he had a tremendous respect for objects and for the way children learn from objects, and he
developed these sets of different sized blocks.
You know what I'm going to do that's better for you to see than these?
These are all complex, different divisions.
Have you seen these formal blocks?
Diana, do you want me to put this top on or do you want to put it on?
Yes.
I think you're right.
I want to just get it out of the way.
You're from the museum, I can tell you.
Anxiety here.
Your excitement has to see the things.
Putting it on a wobbly box.
What a collection.
Yeah, it is a wonderful collection.
Ah.
I haven't seen this.
Fruggle was a mid-nineteenth-century person who made an enormous impact on American educators, particularly on Elizabeth Keabody.
And she wrote, she called the kindergarten the art
academy the children's art academy and this is a book that shows how to use these blocks and how to use kindergarten equipment let me see if i can just find something this sort of stuff they were called the gifts and occupations paper weaving um and uh when
Someone aspired to be a kindergarten teacher.
This is actually German, but this is the kind of... The discipline of the... I'll just show you one of these.
This is the first slide.
Oh, look at that.
Paper weaving is unbelievable.
These were required to be done by teachers, and I couldn't believe...
that this was expected of children.
But I have read recently that this very fine work was little tiny fingers.
And the claim that you were learning math, that you were learning patterns, they're really amazing.
And the blocks are another piece of that same,
working from elements what oh yeah um you know when you think of what um children do in other cultures particularly in in more craft-based cultures you know where for example in third world countries where children are working with very very fine material whether they're doing working on rugs or whether they're working in weaving or dyeing or
I mean, that you can really see, and in other countries, I think even of children working in Chinese painting, traditional Chinese painting, that they're doing this very, very, very same, very fine work at a level that we don't even consider.
Don't believe in expectations of children.
So we could have set a developmental course.
that is self-fulfilling that's right that's right that's right and you certainly see it in other education yeah yeah absolutely true when um i was thinking before you came about how to explain how this whole thing happened and um it was that i got very angry at current art ideas
and the rigidity and doctrinaire ways we say you do this you don't do this and nancy and i both came out of training in art child development and there were all these assumptions that art was the way it was because of the organic makeup of the child well it turns out it was the culture big surprise and um
You can trace the changes.
Now it's the genes.
This is the old nature nurtures.
Going back and forth, yeah.
Well... Thank you.
I'm glad you could all come.
I'm not a professional, but you know, seeing this... Oh, I want it.
Thank you very much to be here.
Well, you have succeeded in...
for the quest that we're making now.
Yeah, I wanted to know where you are.
Tell them what you are trying to do.
I mean, what you are doing and what your aim is in getting a home for this.
Well, to me, you probably don't know what we've been doing.
For some years now, we've been working on a, originally it was a project for a dictionary of American painters born before 1900.
I had
Well, it started when I joined my father after I got to college in the Rose Galleries.
I was 31.
And I immediately began to see signatures on paintings.
I couldn't find them listed anywhere.
And of course, I would do some investigations just for my own purposes and keep notes.
But as it went along,
five or six years of memoir, I began to think that perhaps what was accumulating might become something sometimes.
Well, well, during the 45 years I was there, and 13 years that Ruth was there after our kids had flown somewhat, there was no time, except to, well, on business travels, I would usually try to steal a Sunday or something to look at historical societies, museums, all around the country.
And we did assemble a really considerable amount of material.
And as I say, when we retired, we decided that this was the time.
That was quite a few years ago now.
Had we started to assemble small staff, and eventually when you added
volunteers and interns and so forth.
We at one time had about 10 folks working with us.
That hasn't continued because we found eventually we could have supported ourselves and it has for some years been supported by grants from various foundations and from even interested individuals.
Foundations are, I think, quite properly more interested nowadays, much more interested in social concerns than they are in this sort of thing.
So it hasn't been very easy.
On the other hand, the size of the database for this has grown way out of my imagination.
I should have been.
It's up in the opinion of 10,000 to 20,000 entries.
We are now fiddling with 50,000, 54,000 or something, identified painters.
Now, this is American.
This is all American.
Foreigners who came and worked here did significant work, even though they might have retired later back to Europe or somewhere.
We do include
And, of course, by no means, anyway, all of those are already completely edited and researched, but they've been identified, and we're also getting them onto disks.
They're originally a Godfather, originally, and that's my part of it.
I am computer ignorant, but we have, our son is the computer
curator, you might say, and then we have several others.
But, the reason I was mentioning this was because our time has come when we don't do something such as Nancy's... Diana has done.
We have decided that we had better pull up steaks and go to retirement home before our kids have to drag us there.
We are not 18 anymore.
So we are very regretfully selling our home, Brookline, which was the headquarters.
It was a house big enough for us to live in, and also to have a computer room, file room, and so forth and so on, and another floor for a library.
And that all has to get out.
So we are searching.
or a repository, and I don't see, in my lifetime at least, any publication, considering the sizes of things.
But the database, of course, is something that should be very useful.
And we've tried a number of places.
I can vouch for that.
I was recently, well, not so recently, up in New Hampshire, and I found a beautiful painting.
And what do you do?
You call Morton, and there was a signature.
I called you and I said, does this mean anything to you?
And you called it up and you had a whole story about this person.
It's phenomenal what they have done.
There's a quality not always.
50,000 or so.
Well, we do have inquiries almost every week.
And people say, well, why don't you charge for that?
But nothing doing, because in the first place, we get often as much as we give.
For instance, just to put a very simple way, suppose someone says, well, I know this artist this day, but don't know his death day.
Maybe the other way around with us.
We have learned something as well as giving.
But the rest of us send out letters now and then.
No, I don't think you should call my contact at Huntington's.
Because they have just started this American Museum.
Wow.
And they might be thrilled to have this be housed with that.
Well, yes, it's been suggested, of course.
There are places like Metropole.
National Gallery has expressed some interest.
But there's something else about that.
The point is that I very much hope that it can be in the Boston area, because I would like to keep on working as long as I can on it.
And if we can find a place that, well, for instance, an example of the Boston Epineum.
We did try that without any luck, because I had no room.
I thought they were expanding.
They are expanding.
They are expanding some, but not enough.
Not enough for us.
We have tried several other places.
That was our first choice.
But they have so little money that they said they just couldn't do anything with it.
The FNAF does have a new director there.
They have a new director of the acting, Richard Wendt.
Oh, I know.
Well, Rodney is a close personal friend, and we thought we had a very good chance, but Rodney listened to us carefully.
I'll never forget the meeting.
We had a little action committee of the trustees, and we met with them.
Rodney obviously had asked John Lennon to carry the ball.
Rodney sat and
Look, Rodney-ish.
John asked us questions, so forth and so on.
Rodney finally said, Morten, I'm afraid we can't help you.
Let's go to lunch.
Which we did.
But this has been our experience in two other places.
And we are now, I think, with some hope of trying another one.
developed at the moment, but Diana will hear about it because she'll be at the meeting later on.
So that's what, why I sort of hope we might have it nearby, so that we could have a place to leave the physical.
That's the immediate problem.
Before the moon.
Because people today are looking at our house by a way away.
Do you have images of all the signatures, or many of the signatures too, or is it strictly biographical information?
Biographical.
Oh, yes, we're trying to.
But you have images of the actual artist's signatures as well?
No, no, no, we haven't.
That would be wonderful, of course.
It's not been done, as you know, in some cases.
Yeah.
But we have enough how our play is about .
No, it's been a lot of fun and a little bit of frustration.
Oh, what a gift that is.
According to our by-laws, we have to give it to another 501c3.
We are a not-for-profit corporation.
What's the name of the corporation?
Well, just because I've done it, it's Bo's Archive, no S on the end, Bo's Archive.
Inc.
How would you tell yourself?
Well, I certainly understand your wishing it to stay in Boston.
I hope so.
To work with it.
I mean, the nature of computer material is that you could be anywhere.
Yes.
But I understand the attachment to...
And you're not doing the computer piece.
That's the other thing.
It wouldn't matter where it was, except the piece you were doing.
Oh, Santa Claus does that computer all the time.
Nancy Peabody.
Yeah, Nancy Peabody.
Project Director.
Yeah.
That's the way we sit, and I say, maybe you have landed.
You know, I...
And me, me too.
Because it doesn't have to come out that way.
Wow.